Problem 1: 

Keywords: Simulation, Monte Carlo Estimate, for-loop, matrix-indexing,
writing R functions

Suppose that a seminar room has 6 * 15 chairs and assume that between 3-rd and
4-th columns there is an aisle and between 12-th and 13-th columns, there is
another aisle.  Assume that the seminar is fully attended, i.e., all the
chairs are taken.  For each (i,j)-th seat, we assume that 

1) its horizontally and vertically neighboring seats that the sheet has not
passed before are only possible locations for the sheet, and we call these
seats "the neighboring next seats",

2) if seat (i,j) is not an aisle seat, then the neighboring next seats are
equally likely to be chosen as the next location,

3) if seat (i,j) is an aisle seat, then while all non-aisle neighboring next
seats are equally likely to be chosen as the next location, the neighboring
next seat that is an aisle seat is half the probability of one of the
non-aisle neighboring next seat. 

If there is no neighboring next seat, then the sheet just sits at the current
seat till the end.

If you are the seminar organizer who wants to maximize, at least on average,
the number of names collected at the end of seminar, where should you
initially put your attendance sheet?  

-- R/problem1.R 
-- man/problem1.Rd

Problem 2:

Consider the following statements: 

"This is also an interesting example because, even if the experiment is
randomized, it does not yield unbiased estimates of ages."

"we have found the variance of guesses to be similar for all the photos, but
the biases vary quite a bit, since some people “look their age” and some do
not"

Do the data collected in the first-day of the class support the two statements
made above?  Create a 5-minute video in which you answer the aforementioned
question.  You are not limited to LaTeX at this point, and feel free to use
softwares such as Powerpoint & Keynotes.  However, except the title page and
the headings of each slide, the contents should be descriptive figures that
are dicussed in Chapter 1 of Nolan & Speed.  Be sure to include a transcript
of your video.  Grading will be based on the evidence of clarity,
thoughtfulness and crtical thinking.
