Spring 2013 550.400 Mathematical Modelling and Consulting 

Instructor: Dr. Nam H. Lee
Email: nhlee@jhu.edu
OH: See the information on sections

Lecture: Shaffer 2, MW from 4.30 PM to 5.45 PM
Section: Shaffer 2, Th from 9.00 AM to 9.50 AM 

Keywords: An Introduction to R, Writing R Extensions, Mathematical Statistics
Through Applications, Using LaTeX, Quiz, Project Proposal, Final Deliverables

Textbooks: 
1) The Chicago Guide to Writing about Multivariate Analysis (Miller)
2) Stat Labs: Mathematical Statistics Through Applications (Nolan & Speed)

Grading: Final course grade will be based on
1) Quizzes on R and understanding of statistical concepts (33%)
2) Homework/small projects (33%)
3) Final project and its preparations (33%)

Quizzes:
1) About 6 quizzes.  They will be given in class and section. 
2) There is no makeup quiz.  The lowest two quiz grades will be dropped. 
3) If you miss a quiz, your grade on that will be a zero and will constitute
   one of the two dropped grades. 

Homework policy: 
1) Homework is due one week from day of assignment and will be collected in
   class or via Blackboard.  
2) If you are unable to get to class when the homework is due in class, please
   make an arrangement with the grader to drop your homework before the class
   starts.  
3) No late turn-in.  About 6 homework sets. 

You are encouraged to collaborate on *ideas* with your colleagues, but you
should always compose your own reports, math solutions and computer programs.
See also Statement of Ethics posted on Blackboard. 
 
Equipment: You will need your own computer with the most recent version of R,
LaTeX, Git, Rstudio installed.  You will also need access to a computer that
can capture streaming screens with voice over. In Mac OSX, Quicktime can do
this easily. You may need to bring your labtop in class.  Be sure to have your
labtop fully charged.

Grader: Huong Trinh
Email: ttrinh6@jhu.edu
OH: Noon - 1 PM, Thursday (Clark 307)

Sections: 
1) There may be certain sections in which your attendance will be required.
   Quizzes might be conducted in certain sections.  Additional lectures might be
   given in certain sections. 
2) You will be informed in advanced if your attendance at a section is
   expected.
3) Please be sure to leave this time slot open for such circumstances.  
4) When there is no particular event scheduled during a section, Instructor
   will hold an OH during the hour. 

Final Deliverables: Final Deliverables include
1) Final Report using the course LaTeX template
2) Final Video Presentation using the course LaTeX template
3) Final R package with full documentation
4) Peer evaluation summarizing contribution of team members

Grading of Final Deliverables will be based on evidence of:
1) Creativity
2) Clarity of presentation
3) Thoroughness of investigation
4) Thoughtfulness of investigation
5) Effort expended
6) Critical thinking

Course Git Repository: 
https://github.com/nhlee/550400.ravenxlvii.git
